---
title: "New Coronavirus Dangers"
author: "Sriya Sadhu"
volume: 2
date: "2020-04-26"
topic: "COVID-19"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v02a02"
---

As we’ve all been aware of, from early this March to now, the COVID-19 pandemic has been shrouded in uncertainty and confusion- whether it be the statistics or the symptoms. This fact allows for a breeding ground for misconceptions. One of the most prevalent ones of these misconceptions among the general public being that the virus only has a real effect on older people with preexisting conditions. 

Doctors throughout the United States have recently reported that coronavirus appears to be causing sudden strokes in seemingly healthy adults who are in their 30s and 40s. Due to the growing evidence that the COVID-19 infection can cause atypical blood clotting, an expected consequence would naturally be a stroke. However, what really stands out are the patients’ ages and severity of symptoms. 

A neurosurgeon at Mount Sinai Health System in New York, Dr. Thomas Oxley, reported that all the people they’ve treated were under the age of 50, and either had mild symptoms of COVID-19 or surprisingly no symptoms at all. Additionally, most of the patients had no past medical history suggesting a preexisting condition making them more susceptible to COVID. 

During a stroke, blood flow stops, causing brain cells to die rapidly. Thus, the longer the blood flow is blocked, the greater the damage in the brain. This means that quick treatment is essential in order to increase the chances of survival. Additionally, Oxley went on to describe treatments, stating that “The most effective treatment for large vessel stroke is clot retrieval, but this must be performed within 6-24 hours.” 

However, a common issue as detailed by many other doctors (especially among younger patients) would be the general reluctance to call 911 due to the pandemic. In response, Oxley and his team want to tell people to be aware of their symptoms for coronavirus and to call 911 without hesitation when they see evidence of a stroke. Oxley additionally provided a mnemonic that could be used when one suspects they’ve had a stroke: FAST- F for face drooping, A for arm weakness, S for speech difficulty, and T for time to call 911.