---
title: "Altering the Rainbow Across the Pond"
author: "Braiden Aaronson"
volume: 5
date: "2020-05-31"
topic: "LGBTQ+"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v05a03"
---

The rainbow flag, one of the most well known and recognizable symbols for the LGBTQ+ community, is being used to symbolize support for the UK’s National Health Service, or NHS for short, after people decided healthcare workers deserved a symbol of recognition for their bravery and determination in the fight against COVID-19. During this pandemic, much of the general public has been appreciating healthcare workers for their efforts and struggles in the face of adversity, however, this situation has more facets to explore than its seemingly innocent goals. There is now nationwide confusion and concern about what exactly the rainbow flag supports. Many people are confusing the NHS’s seven-color rainbow flag with the LGBTQ+ six color pride flag. People in the LGBTQ+ community have voiced concerns that this rebranding of the rainbow flag is suppressing the community despite intentions to support the people on the frontlines battling COVID-19.

On the other hand, people that favor this change say that the rainbow does not belong to anyone or any community. It is true that the rainbow has been historically seen as a universal symbol of hope, but this broad interpretation has become somewhat muddled by the introduction and popularization of the pride flag nearly fifty years ago. Beyond the social reasonings for supporting the NHS this way, there is an obvious financial incentive that businesses have capitalized on as well. A lot of companies mass-produced pride merchandise to be sold and distributed for the upcoming LGBTQ+ pride celebrations throughout the month of June, but coronavirus canceled almost all of these events. Because of that, companies have been adding NHS related commentary on what was previously their pride stock in order to sell it to more people. Concern over this rebranding has prompted a petition to be created to officially change the symbol for NHS support from the rainbow flag. After looking at how businesses are profiting off of rebranding pride and the unsettled stance of the current majority political party on LGBT rights, one question becomes obvious: is the favor for using rainbow flags to support NHS healthcare workers entirely innocent?