---
title: "The Riots Across the Nation"
author: "Samuel McCaulley"
volume: 6
date: "2020-06-07"
topic: "Black Lives Matter"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v06a06"
---

Ever since the unjustified death of George Floyd, Black Lives Matter (BLM) activists have organized numerous protests across the United States, starting in Minneapolis on May 29. However, despite reports from the media, many of these protests are not peaceful. Take, for instance, the dozens of convenience stores, retailers, and supermarkets raided, looted, and burned to the ground. Additionally, take the CNN building raided by these protests in Minneapolis on the 29th, as well as the terrorism charges brought on three protestors on June 3. Despite your political leaning, one can determine that these aspects of the protests are tearing the country to pieces and ultimately undermining the movement.

In a poll performed by the Morning Consult, 58% of 1,624 registered voters support the deployment of the military in hopes to control the protests across the nation. President Trump agrees, hoping to invoke the Insurrection Act of 1807, allowing the domestic use of the military against protestors. This 58% of registered voters in support of this action are only met with 30% of registered voters opposing, with 12% of voters who are neutral on the matter. Despite the partisan subject of the BLM movement, the results of this poll aren’t as ideologically partisan as one may think. 75% of self-identified conservatives support the deployment of the military, and 43% of self-identified liberals agree on the same matter. What is apparent is that on both sides of the political spectrum is that many citizens have had enough of the less peaceful aspects of these peaceful protests.

Perhaps more importantly, who is at fault for all of the violence? This is where political operatives have been pointing fingers, blaming the other side for the violence. For instance, President Trump has been blaming the radical left-wing group Antifa for the violent streaks of the protest, threatening to officially label the group as a terrorist organization. Democrats, however, point to white supremacist groups false-flagging the riots as those committed by BLM activists. Although many agree that the violent aspects of the protests across the nation come across as hypocritical, being something they’re trying to protest against, many notable BLM figures, and even corporations like Sony, believe that the violence is justified and even encourage looting stores, with a common slogan being “merchandise can be replaced, lives cannot.” Not much is known about who the instigators of this violence are, whether it be the Antifa or far-right counter-protesters, although many individuals believe the violence has gone far enough.

The right to protest can and should never be taken away, despite one’s political leanings, skin color, country of origin, etc., although what isn’t a right at all is the ability to take away an individual's livelihoods and threaten their well-being while trying to protest for the opposite. George Floyd’s death was reprehensible and disgusting, and BLM groups have a right to be angry, although once these groups become what they’re trying to fight against, many Americans agree that it has gone too far. If you’re planning on protesting for BLM- which you should if you believe in the cause- please represent the movement in a positive manner, and don’t do anything reckless.