---
title: "Does the Vice President Pick Actually Affect the Presidential Election?"
author: "Dave Banerjee"
volume: 7
date: "2020-06-14"
topic: "US Politics"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v07a03"
---

In my last article, I discussed the possible candidates Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, may choose as his running mate in the upcoming 2020 Presidential Election. I suggested that each possible pick could affect voter turnout and tilt the polls in favor of their party in their individual state/region. However, this does not necessarily seem to be the case. Biden’s VP Pick will not be informed by where his pick is from. Rather it will come down to other factors like national popularity, political experience, and ideology.

According to a study by Our Progress, Biden has a 74.27% chance of winning the upcoming election. However, if he chooses Elizabeth Warren as his running mate, his chances of winning goes up to 84.91%. This is a significant change in favor of Joe Biden, and this is a clear example of how VP pick’s geographical region does not matter. Elizabeth Warren is the Senior US Senator from Massachusetts. Massachusetts is a democratic stronghold, and Massachusetts is located in New England, which is generally left-leaning. If it isn’t Warren’s location that is increasing Biden’s chance, then what is it?

The answer is her popularity within the Democratic party. Warren’s progressive ideology will help win over America’s progressive base. At first, it may not seem necessary for Biden’s running mate to appeal to progressives because normally, progressives would vote for the democratic party; but with the rising popularity of the #NeverBiden and the #BernieOrBust movements, progressives may refuse to vote for Biden. Warren has the ability to appeal to this demographic because of her policies such as her progressive healthcare and economic policies. With Biden taking more centrist and conservative stances for the 2020 election, Warren may compliment him well and widen their appeal across the Overton Window, resulting in a more likely win for the democratic party.