---
title: "Parents and Politics"
author: "Yashvini Deva"
volume: 8
date: "2020-06-21"
topic: "Other"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v08a03"
---

As politics become more polarizing and the generational divide widens, avoiding discussing politics with your family becomes a more and more appealing option. But if today’s political climate has shown us anything, it’s that not having these conversations and staying silent is what allows injustice to continue to thrive. Talking about politics may seem like an argument waiting to happen, but if you (and your family) keep a few things in mind, you might be able to find a common ground. 

1. **Remember to be tolerant.**
When trying to maintain a civil conversation, it’s important to be accepting of your parent’s views, no matter how much you disagree with them. Getting defensive will get you nowhere other than an argument.

2. **Be patient.**
Your parents may say things blatantly wrong and it might make you really frustrated, but it’s important to remember to be patient. You getting frustrated and taking it out on your family will get you nowhere and will actually make it harder for you to have these conversations. Remember that you parents grew up in a different time, so they may need to relearn decades of incorrect information, so be patient.

3. **Prepare sources.**
Having a few articles on hand to give to your parents will encourage them to keep looking into politics outside of your conversations. Having articles that are full of statistics will allow your parents to get an informative take on important issues.

4. **Be open.**
Remember that for this conversation to work, it needs to go both ways. You also need to be open to hearing out your parents, just as you want them to listen to you. 

As small as these conversations may seem, it is important to have them, especially with the elections this year. Having these conversations allow you to try to educate your parents and learn something yourself.