---
title: "Supporting Black Trans Women"
author: "Temi Akinyoade"
volume: 9
date: "2020-06-28"
topic: "LGBTQ+"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v09a04"
---


<div align="center"><b>The life expectancy of black transgender women is between 30 to 35 years old.</b></div>

Low life expectancy means certain factors are at play against trans people, especially those of color. Black transgender people face the systemic issues of unemployment, a lack of access to healthcare, and homelessness, making them more vulnerable to violence and health issues. In 2015, the National Center for Transgender Equality released a report on the experiences of black trans people in the U.S., finding that 42% of the respondents have been homeless at some point in their lives. It was also reported that 1 in 5 trans people in the U.S. have been discriminated against when looking for a home, so this, intersected with the issue of racial discrimination, only makes life worse for black trans people. 

Ashlee Marie Preston turned 36 on June 8th. She’s the first trans woman to become editor-in-chief of a national publication, Wear Your Voice Magazine, as well as the first openly trans person to run for California state office. Preston started the #ThriveOver35 social media campaign when she turned 34. The goal of the campaign is to support and empower black trans women by spreading awareness of their issues and giving them economic and workplace opportunities. Preston acknowledges that while the LGBTQ+ community has made plenty of progress in the past years with more rights and improved access to jobs and housing, they still need to address the greatest vulnerability in their community—black trans women. She says they “deserve to thrive, not just survive.”