---
title: "Prominent Queer Figures in History"
author: "Sriya Sadhu"
volume: 9
date: "2020-06-28"
topic: "LGBTQ+"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v09a08"
---

Queer erasure is a term that at least most of us must have heard before. To put it into words, this practice is when people of the LGBTQ+ community are erased from cultural narratives. We see this in every facet of our life, whether it be the media we consume or the places we work at. However one of the most prevalent areas of queer erasure would be in our very own human history.

This heteronormative cultural practice tends to alter the identities of numerous historical figures, distorting the very nature of our history. Here, we have a list of a few prominent LGBTQ+ historical figures that may not have been common knowledge.

<div align="center"><b>Eleanor Roosevelt</b></div>

* Former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt was an activist, diplomat, and the wife to Franklin D. Roosevelt, a former president of the United States. She had a close romantic relationship with journalist Lorena Hickok.

<div align="center"><b>Sally Ride</b></div>

* Ride is the first American woman to fly in space, inspiring not only a legacy of inclusion but an entire generation of STEM-oriented women. Ride revealed in her obituary that a woman named Tam O’Shaughnessy was her “partner of 27 years.”

<div align="center"><b>Alexander the Great</b></div>

* Alexander the Great was a king of Macedon (an ancient Greek kingdom) and was known for his extraordinary military and strategic skills. Aside from the more affectionate nature of ancient Greek male friendships, Alexander the Great shared a close bond with Hephaesteon, a general in Alexander’s army.

<div align="center"><b>James Buchanan</b></div>

* Buchanan was an American lawyer and politician who served as the 15th president of the United States. He has additionally been reported to have a close romantic relationship with another politician, William Rufus King.

<div align="center"><b>Frida Kahlo</b></div>

* A notable Mexican painter, Kahlo was known for her many portraits that explored numerous societal questions like gender, class, and race. Aside from having a lasting impact on LGBTQ+ art, Kahlo had numerous romantic affairs with both men and women.