---
title: "Democratic National Convention Highlights"
author: "Temi Akinyoade"
volume: 15
date: "2020-08-23"
topic: "2020 Presidential Election"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v15a03"
---

* Michelle Obama says, “we have got to vote for Joe Biden like our lives depend on it.”
* George Floyd’s brothers talk about continuing to fight against the unjust murders of black Americans.
* A few Republican politicians talk about why they’re voting for Biden and encourage others to do the same. Many of them say Biden will be able to get the economy back on track.
* Senator of Nevada talks about the importance and feasibility of mail-in voting.
* Bernie encourages his progressive supporters to vote for Biden.
* In AOC’s 90 second speech, she nominated Bernie for Democratic nominee simply because a nomination for him was required by the convention.
* Healthcare activist Ady Barken who has advocated for “Medicare for All” speaks on the detriment of another four years of Trump’s presidency could cause healthcare.
* Kamala Harris uses most of her speech to talk about her life story. She talks about fighting for survivors of sexual assault and says, “I know a predator when I see one,” likely referring to Trump.
* Hilary Clinton reminisces over the time she won the popular vote but Trump won the Electoral College. She stresses the importance of an overwhelming vote in Biden’s favor.
* Obama criticizes Trump’s presidency, something former presidents don’t do often.
* Biden accepts his nomination and addresses his vision for the Affordable Care Act in the future.