---
title: "Mental Health and Online Learning"
author: "Jalini Balasubramaniam"
volume: 17
date: "2020-09-13"
topic: "Mental Health"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v17a04"
---


Keeping up with your mental health has been especially challenging these past few months, but here are some tips/software that I have found personally helpful!

* Routine is key/Use a planner (Google Calendar & Distraction Free Youtube)

Setting a routine can be extremely helpful when there are so many hours and seemingly so much to do. Using a planner, especially a digital one with reminders can be very helpful when we spend so much time digitally. Letting yourself fall into a routine and not get distracted can help maximize your productivity.

* Set aside time to socialize (Sesame; hang out with your friends!)

Now that school has started, it’s important to take a step back and reassess. Have you been spending days in your room working on assignments or hours on call with your friends? It’s critical to do what works for you, but make sure you’re getting all your work done on time and sleeping enough. Setting aside time to socialize can benefit both sides of the spectrum.

* Go outside! (Headspace)

Go on a walk with your family or a bike ride! Taking only 10 minutes out of your day to destress and get some Vitamin D can be extremely beneficial for your mental health. Take this time to reflect on your day or catch the last of the fleeting summer.

* Turn your video on (Zoom Utils)

It really helps me to turn on my video during class to prevent falling asleep or zoning out. It can help you stay in the present and not fall behind in your classes. Being present during the few synchronous classes we have can help build mental stamina for other tasks.

Lastly don’t be too hard on yourself, we are going through unprecedented times and it’s important to prioritize yourself and your mental health.