---
title: "Trump's Response to Election Results"
author: "Anvitha Reddy"
volume: 23
date: "2020-11-15"
topic: "2020 Presidential Election"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v23a02"
---

After prematurely declaring victory the night of the election, President Trump has maintained the position that he won the presidential election. Though every media outlet who has called the election has determined that Vice President Biden won, Trump and his supporters continue to believe that voter fraud occurred. The Trump campaign has filed lawsuits across the country to try to prove their allegations, though none have resulted in success for the incumbent. Breaking all precedent, Trump has not given a concession speech nor invited Biden to the White House. Vice President Biden, however, has already named his Chief of Staff and has had briefings over the coronavirus with his newly named task force.

During the presidential debate, Trump would not commit to a peaceful transition of power citing the possibility of voter fraud so many Americans expected this response from the President. All of Trump’s lawsuits have not yielded results in his favor. Most activity that seems suspicious is due to the large sum of mail-in ballots that favor Biden, possibly due to the fact that Democrats typically favor mail-in ballots historically and that Trump discouraged his supporters from voting through mail-in. Just this Friday, the Trump Administration lost 6 cases to stop counting in Pennsylvania, a state where Biden has a lead, and most have called for Biden. Several Republian news outlets, notably FOX News, have entertained the voter fraud claims but on multiple instances encouraged the President to concede peacefully.

In order for the election to be undone, Trump would have to prove systemic voter fraud, enough to turn several battleground states, which could be difficult considering Biden’s lead and significant popular vote margin. The tensions within the Republican party and the country remain as legal proceedings continue and Biden prepares to be sworn in.