---
title: "Larry King Passes at 87"
author: "Daniel Li"
volume: 26
date: "2021-01-31"
topic: "Other"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v26a02"
---

Larry King, host of “Larry King Live” on CNN, has died. Known for his witty remarks and interviewing sensibilities, King was 87 years old at the time of his passing. Throughout his 25 year run, King has interviewed a variety of people, from celebrities such as Frank Sinatra to politicians such as Al Gore. He retired in 2010 after recording more than 6,000 episodes.

While no clear cause of death was given, King was hospitalized with COVID-19 in late December, and has suffered from a number of health ailments from a string of heart attacks throughout the 1980s to lung cancer in 2017.

Shortly after his passing, the family of Larry King released this statement:

“We are heartbroken over our father's death, and together with our extended family mourn his passing. The world knew Larry King as a great broadcaster and interviewer, but to us he was 'dad.' He was the man who lovingly obsessed over our daily schedules and our well-being, and who took such immense pride in our accomplishments -- large, small, or imagined. And, through it all, we knew without a doubt in the world that he loved us more than life itself. He was an amazing father, and he was fiercely loyal to those lucky enough to call him a friend. We will miss him every single day of our lives.

“The outpouring of love and the remembrances of his remarkable career have touched us deeply and we are so thankful. In lieu of flowers, we kindly ask consideration of a donation to the American Heart Association or the Beverly Hills Fire Department EMS, to which a debt of gratitude is owed for the wonderful care they provided to our dad in his final years.

“With deep appreciation, Larry King, Jr., Chance King, and Cannon King”