---
title: "Ballot's Books: Autoboyography"
author: "Yashvini Deva"
volume: 29
date: "2021-03-07"
topic: "Book Review"
slug: "/ballot-buzz/v29a05"
---

*Autoboyography* by Christina Lauren follows Tanner, a bisexual teenager, living in a primarily LDS community as he navigates a relationship with Sebastian, his staunchly Mormon writing mentor. Throughout the book, Tanner learns to navigate a world prejudiced against for something as simple as his sexuality while also dismantling his own prejudices against Mormons.

Furthermore, the entire perspective of the book is told through the eyes of Tanner, who is writing this book for a writing seminar course. The author uses this to her advantage by showing how word choice, both Tanner's and Sebastian’s, are monumentally important. For example, there is a moment in the book where Tanner peers deeper than the surface level, religious messages of the language of the church and realizes that they’re just people too--the same respect he wants Mormons to extend to the LGBTQ+ community. Sebastian also has a similar realization as he tries to choose a label for his sexuality while trying to reconcile it with his faith.

*Autoboyography* is a lot of things: a coming of age story, a romance story, an exploration of faith and sexuality, and a study into language and how it affects how we see the world. Through her use of word choice, Christina Lauren cleverly imparts the important message that underneath all language, there is underlying humanity--like finding comfort in prayer or labels--and by understanding this, it is easier to understand each other.